README.md, before:

<!-- @format -->

# Jenkins Infrastructure Terraform Module

This Terraform module sets up a robust Jenkins infrastructure in AWS, including security groups, ECS task definitions, EFS for persistent storage, and other supporting components. It is designed to be flexible, allowing users to override defaults and customize the deployment while providing sensible defaults for common use cases.

---

## Features

- **Jenkins Deployment:**
  - Deploy Jenkins as a containerized service on ECS.
  - Configure Jenkins with customizable plugins.
  - Always get the latest version of Jenkins.
  - Plugins are automatically updated during `terraform apply` if `enable_update_plugins` is set to `true`.

- **Networking:**
  - Predefined security groups for ingress/egress rules.
  - Support for adding additional security groups.
  - Allows traffic to flow within your VPC based on CIDR subnet configuration.

- **Persistent Storage:**
  - Automatically provisions an EFS file system for Jenkins data.
  - If the master container goes down, ECS will automatically bring up another container, and jobs will resume from the point where Jenkins went down.

- **CloudWatch Integration:**
  - Logs are forwarded to CloudWatch with customizable retention periods.

- **Customization:**
  - All major settings, such as instance sizes, security rules, and Jenkins configurations, can be overridden.

---
## Plugins Updte
 - In order for automatic plugings update to work need to set `enable_update_plugins` to `true` by default it is set to `false`.
 - The Jenkins should be reacble using your own DNS to resolve `jenkins_url` if using Loadbalancer its target group should point to the instance runnig on ECS cluster.

---

## Pre-requiset
- Docker 
- Java runtime
- Terraform

## Note

- **Job Execution on Master and Slaves:**
  - By default, all Jenkins jobs will run on the Master node. To enable jobs to run on dynamically provisioned slaves, you need to download and configure the **Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS) / Fargate** [Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS) / Fargate)](https://plugins.jenkins.io/amazon-ecs/) on Jenkins.
  - After installing the plugin, navigate to `Manage Jenkins` and select the `Clouds` section. 
  - Create a new cloud configuration and set it up according to your requirements.


- **Accessing Jenkins Without DNS:**
  - If you do not have a DNS configured, you can access Jenkins manually:
    1. Log in to the AWS Management Console.
    2. Navigate to the **ECS** section and locate the `jenkins_cpu` cluster.
    3. Select the running task and go to the **Networking** tab.
    4. Click on the **Public IP** of the associated EC2 instance and append port `8080` to the URL (e.g., `http://<Public-IP>:8080`).

---
# Resources

| Category                               | Type     |
|----------------------------------------|----------|
| aws_security_group                     | Resource |
| null_resource                          | Resource |
| aws_iam_role                           | Resource |
| aws_iam_role_policy_attachment         | Resource |
| aws_iam_instance_profile               | Resource |
| aws_efs_file_system                    | Resource |
| aws_efs_mount_target                   | Resource |
| aws_ecs_task_definition                | Resource |
| aws_ecs_service                        | Resource |
| aws_ecs_cluster                        | Resource |
| aws_ecs_cluster_capacity_providers     | Resource |
| aws_ecs_capacity_provider              | Resource |
| aws_autoscaling_group                  | Resource |
| aws_launch_template                    | Resource |
| aws_cloudwatch_log_group               | Resource |
| aws_region                             | Data     |
| docker_registry_image                  | Data     |
| aws_subnets                            | Data     |
| aws_subnet                             | Data     |
| aws_vpc                                | Data     |
| aws_ssm_parameter                      | Data     |
| aws_iam_policy_document                | Data     |
| aws_iam_policy                         | Data     |


# Input

| Name                        | Description                                            | Type                  | Default                       | Required |
|-----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------|-------------------------------|----------|
| `jenkins_url`               | The URL for the Jenkins instance.                      | `string`              | `"http://localhost:8080/"`    | No       |
| `region`                    | AWS region for the deployment.                         | `string`              | `"us-east-1"`                 | No       |
| `vpc_id`                    | The ID of the VPC to deploy resources into.            | `string`              | `""`                          | Yes      |
| `cloudwatch_name`           | CloudWatch log group name for Jenkins logs.            | `string`              | `"/jenkins/logs"`             | No       |
| `efs_creation_token`        | Name of the EFS file system.                           | `string`              | `"jenkins-efs"`               | No       |
| `efs_performance_mode`      | EFS performance mode.                                  | `string`              | `"generalPurpose"`            | No       |
| `efs_throughput_mode`       | EFS throughput mode.                                   | `string`              | `"bursting"`                  | No       |
| `retention_in_days`         | Number of days to retain CloudWatch logs.              | `number`              | `7`                           | No       |
| `additional_security_groups`| Additional security group configurations.              | `list(object({...}))` | `[]`                          | No       |
| `ami_id`                    | Specify your own ECS-optimized AMI for the module.     | `string`              | `""`                          | No       |
| `enable_update_plugins`     | Enables automatic plugin updates in Jenkins.           | `bool`                | `false`                       | No       |
| `min_instance_size`         | Minimum number of EC2 instances.                       | `number`              | `1`                           | No       |
| `desired_service_count`     | Desired number of ECS services.                        | `number`              | `1`                           | No       |
| `max_instance_size`         | Maximum number of EC2 instances.                       | `number`              | `1`                           | No       |
| `instance_type`             | Type of EC2 instance.                                  | `string`              | `"t2.medium"`                 | No       |
| `cloudwatch_environment`    | CloudWatch environment.                                | `string`              | `"Sandbox"`                   | No       |
| `jenkins_image`             | Jenkins Docker image for the master.                   | `string`              | `"jenkins/jenkins:lts"`       | No       |
| `jenkins_slave_agent_port`  | Port configuration for Jenkins slave agents.           | `string`              | `"8090"`                      | No       |
| `cpu`                       | CPU to allocate for Jenkins in Docker.                 | `number`              | `500`                         | No       |
| `memory`                    | Memory to allocate for Jenkins in Docker.              | `number`              | `1024`                        | No       |
| `security_groups`           | Security group configurations for Jenkins.             | `list(object({...}))` | See default                   | No       |



# Output

| Name                          | Description                                             |
|-------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|
| `security_group_ids`           | Map of security group names to their IDs.              |

---


# Usage

### Example

```hcl
module "jenkins" {
  source = "umairshaikh45/jenkins/aws"

  # Override defaults if needed
  jenkins_url           = "http://jenkins.example.com:8080/"
  region                = "us-east-1"
  vpc_id                = "vpc-12345678"
  cloudwatch_name       = "/jenkins/logs"
  efs_creation_token    = "jenkins-efs"
  efs_performance_mode  = "generalPurpose"
  efs_throughput_mode   = "bursting"
  retention_in_days     = 14

  # Add additional security groups if needed
  additional_security_groups = [
    {
      name = "custom-sg"
      ingress_rules = [
        {
          from_port   = 80
          to_port     = 80
          protocol    = "tcp"
          cidr_blocks = ["0.0.0.0/0"]
          description = "Allow HTTP traffic"
        }
      ]
      egress_rules = [
        {
          from_port   = 0
          to_port     = 0
          protocol    = "-1"
          cidr_blocks = ["0.0.0.0/0"]
          description = "Allow all egress"
        }
      ]
      tags = {
        Name = "custom-sg"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

## Authors

Module is maintained by [Umair Shaikh](https://github.com/umairshaikh45/).

## License

Apache 2 Licensed. See [LICENSE](https://github.com/umairshaikh45/terraform-aws-jenkins/blob/Master/LICENSE) for full details.

Commit message:

Detect EFS mount for backups

README.md, after:

<!-- @format -->

# Jenkins Infrastructure Terraform Module

This Terraform module sets up a robust Jenkins infrastructure in AWS, including security groups, ECS task definitions, EFS for persistent storage, and other supporting components. It is designed to be flexible, allowing users to override defaults and customize the deployment while providing sensible defaults for common use cases.

---

## Features

- **Jenkins Deployment:**
  - Deploy Jenkins as a containerized service on ECS.
  - Configure Jenkins with customizable plugins.
  - Always get the latest version of Jenkins.
  - Plugins are automatically updated during `terraform apply` if `enable_update_plugins` is set to `true`.

- **Networking:**
  - Predefined security groups for ingress/egress rules.
  - Support for adding additional security groups.
  - Allows traffic to flow within your VPC based on CIDR subnet configuration.

- **Persistent Storage:**
  - Automatically provisions an EFS file system for Jenkins data.
  - If the master container goes down, ECS will automatically bring up another container, and jobs will resume from the point where Jenkins went down.

- **CloudWatch Integration:**
  - Logs are forwarded to CloudWatch with customizable retention periods.

- **Backup:**
  - Optional automated backups of Jenkins data to an S3 bucket on a configurable schedule. The backup script automatically detects the EFS mount used for Jenkins data.

- **Customization:**
  - All major settings, such as instance sizes, security rules, and Jenkins configurations, can be overridden.

---
## Plugins Updte
 - In order for automatic plugings update to work need to set `enable_update_plugins` to `true` by default it is set to `false`.
 - The Jenkins should be reacble using your own DNS to resolve `jenkins_url` if using Loadbalancer its target group should point to the instance runnig on ECS cluster.

---

## Pre-requiset
- Docker 
- Java runtime
- Terraform

## Note

- **Job Execution on Master and Slaves:**
  - By default, all Jenkins jobs will run on the Master node. To enable jobs to run on dynamically provisioned slaves, you need to download and configure the **Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS) / Fargate** [Amazon Elastic Container Service (ECS) / Fargate)](https://plugins.jenkins.io/amazon-ecs/) on Jenkins.
  - After installing the plugin, navigate to `Manage Jenkins` and select the `Clouds` section. 
  - Create a new cloud configuration and set it up according to your requirements.


- **Accessing Jenkins Without DNS:**
  - If you do not have a DNS configured, you can access Jenkins manually:
    1. Log in to the AWS Management Console.
    2. Navigate to the **ECS** section and locate the `jenkins_cpu` cluster.
    3. Select the running task and go to the **Networking** tab.
    4. Click on the **Public IP** of the associated EC2 instance and append port `8080` to the URL (e.g., `http://<Public-IP>:8080`).

---
# Resources

| Category                               | Type     |
|----------------------------------------|----------|
| aws_security_group                     | Resource |
| null_resource                          | Resource |
| aws_iam_role                           | Resource |
| aws_iam_role_policy_attachment         | Resource |
| aws_iam_instance_profile               | Resource |
| aws_efs_file_system                    | Resource |
| aws_efs_mount_target                   | Resource |
| aws_ecs_task_definition                | Resource |
| aws_ecs_service                        | Resource |
| aws_ecs_cluster                        | Resource |
| aws_ecs_cluster_capacity_providers     | Resource |
| aws_ecs_capacity_provider              | Resource |
| aws_autoscaling_group                  | Resource |
| aws_launch_template                    | Resource |
| aws_cloudwatch_log_group               | Resource |
| aws_region                             | Data     |
| docker_registry_image                  | Data     |
| aws_subnets                            | Data     |
| aws_subnet                             | Data     |
| aws_vpc                                | Data     |
| aws_ssm_parameter                      | Data     |
| aws_iam_policy_document                | Data     |
| aws_iam_policy                         | Data     |


# Input

| Name                        | Description                                            | Type                  | Default                       | Required |
|-----------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|-----------------------|-------------------------------|----------|
| `jenkins_url`               | The URL for the Jenkins instance.                      | `string`              | `"http://localhost:8080/"`    | No       |
| `region`                    | AWS region for the deployment.                         | `string`              | `"us-east-1"`                 | No       |
| `vpc_id`                    | The ID of the VPC to deploy resources into.            | `string`              | `""`                          | Yes      |
| `cloudwatch_name`           | CloudWatch log group name for Jenkins logs.            | `string`              | `"/jenkins/logs"`             | No       |
| `efs_creation_token`        | Name of the EFS file system.                           | `string`              | `"jenkins-efs"`               | No       |
| `efs_performance_mode`      | EFS performance mode.                                  | `string`              | `"generalPurpose"`            | No       |
| `efs_throughput_mode`       | EFS throughput mode.                                   | `string`              | `"bursting"`                  | No       |
| `retention_in_days`         | Number of days to retain CloudWatch logs.              | `number`              | `7`                           | No       |
| `additional_security_groups`| Additional security group configurations.              | `list(object({...}))` | `[]`                          | No       |
| `ami_id`                    | Specify your own ECS-optimized AMI for the module.     | `string`              | `""`                          | No       |
| `enable_update_plugins`     | Enables automatic plugin updates in Jenkins.           | `bool`                | `false`                       | No       |
| `min_instance_size`         | Minimum number of EC2 instances.                       | `number`              | `1`                           | No       |
| `desired_service_count`     | Desired number of ECS services.                        | `number`              | `1`                           | No       |
| `max_instance_size`         | Maximum number of EC2 instances.                       | `number`              | `1`                           | No       |
| `instance_type`             | Type of EC2 instance.                                  | `string`              | `"t2.medium"`                 | No       |
| `cloudwatch_environment`    | CloudWatch environment.                                | `string`              | `"Sandbox"`                   | No       |
| `jenkins_image`             | Jenkins Docker image for the master.                   | `string`              | `"jenkins/jenkins:lts"`       | No       |
| `jenkins_slave_agent_port`  | Port configuration for Jenkins slave agents.           | `string`              | `"8090"`                      | No       |
| `cpu`                       | CPU to allocate for Jenkins in Docker.                 | `number`              | `500`                         | No       |
| `memory`                    | Memory to allocate for Jenkins in Docker.              | `number`              | `1024`                        | No       |
| `backup_enabled`           | Enable automated backups to S3.                         | `bool`                | `false`                       | No       |
| `backup_bucket_name`       | Name of the S3 bucket used for backups.                 | `string`              | `""`                          | No       |
| `backup_schedule`          | Cron expression for the backup job.                     | `string`              | `"0 3 * * *"`                 | No       |
| `security_groups`           | Security group configurations for Jenkins.             | `list(object({...}))` | See default                   | No       |



# Output

| Name                          | Description                                             |
|-------------------------------|---------------------------------------------------------|
| `security_group_ids`           | Map of security group names to their IDs.              |

---


# Usage

### Example

```hcl
module "jenkins" {
  source = "umairshaikh45/jenkins/aws"

  # Override defaults if needed
  jenkins_url           = "http://jenkins.example.com:8080/"
  region                = "us-east-1"
  vpc_id                = "vpc-12345678"
  cloudwatch_name       = "/jenkins/logs"
  efs_creation_token    = "jenkins-efs"
  efs_performance_mode  = "generalPurpose"
  efs_throughput_mode   = "bursting"
  retention_in_days     = 14

  backup_enabled        = true
  backup_bucket_name    = "jenkins-backups"
  backup_schedule       = "0 3 * * *"
  # Add additional security groups if needed
  additional_security_groups = [
    {
      name = "custom-sg"
      ingress_rules = [
        {
          from_port   = 80
          to_port     = 80
          protocol    = "tcp"
          cidr_blocks = ["0.0.0.0/0"]
          description = "Allow HTTP traffic"
        }
      ]
      egress_rules = [
        {
          from_port   = 0
          to_port     = 0
          protocol    = "-1"
          cidr_blocks = ["0.0.0.0/0"]
          description = "Allow all egress"
        }
      ]
      tags = {
        Name = "custom-sg"
      }
    }
  ]
}
```

## Authors

Module is maintained by [Umair Shaikh](https://github.com/umairshaikh45/).

## License

Apache 2 Licensed. See [LICENSE](https://github.com/umairshaikh45/terraform-aws-jenkins/blob/Master/LICENSE) for full details.
